---
layout: post
title: Thoughts and their role
date: Wed 03 Mar 2021 09:10:53 PM IST
categories: ["Personal Writings"]
---

What is the role of thoughts in our lives? We act the thoughts; we learn to
channelize them in a certain way -- through family, friends, society, and
teachers.  Different professions require us to think in a certain way -- we train
ourselves to reach there. A politician and a teacher process the information in
different ways; the thoughts and way of thinking make distinct individuals.

Everything around us is a thought in action, think about it (:P). We are also
thoughts in actions but of course, much more than that. We form ideas and
ideals to interact with society. Changing these ideas and ideals changes us
a great deal. Reminisce the story of Ratnakar and Anguliman. Ideas and ideals
could be very violent; individuals suffer a lot because of their ideas about
themselves and society suffers from the ideals.

The quality of our lives is dependent on the quality of our thoughts. A good
way of thinking helps in tough times, and a bad way of thinking obstructs
good times. We can think differently in similar situations; what we choose,
decides our quality of life. One can see a failed person or a great amount
of learning in a failed endeavor.

There is a thought, and there is a vast memory or experience behind that. Is
the constituent of thought different from the constituent of the memory? We
select the memory and reminisce it; the reminiscence is also a thought.

Observe your thoughts, witness what's going on in there. Train yourself to
think clearly.

The writer doesn't claim anything and struggles himself with ideas and ideals.
